Google Cloud's managed service
offering for Kubernetes, it's called Google
Kubernetes Engine or GKE. So why do people choose it? What if you'd begun using
Kubernetes in your environment, but the infrastructure has become too much of a burden
for you to maintain? Is there anything within Google Cloud Platform that can help you? Absolutely totally,
that's going to be Google Kubernetes Engine or GKE. GKE, let's talk about
what it can do. It'll help you deploy, manage, and scale Kubernetes
environments for your containerized
applications on GCP. More specifically, GKE is a component of the GCP
compute offerings. It makes it easy to bring your Kubernetes workloads
into the Cloud. GKE is fully managed, which means that
you don't have to provision the
underlying resources. GKE uses a container
optimized operating system. These operating systems
are maintained by Google, and are optimized to scale quickly and with
a minimal resource footprint. The container optimized OS, as we will be discussed
later on in this course. When you use GKE, you start by directing
the service to instantiate a Kubernetes
system for you. This system is called a cluster. GKE's auto upgrade feature can be enabled to ensure
that your clusters are automatically upgraded with the latest and greatest
version of Kubernetes. The virtual machines that
host your containers inside of a GKE cluster
are called nodes. If you enable GKE's auto
repair feature, the service will automatically repair unhealthy nodes for you. It'll make periodic health checks on each node in the cluster. If a node is determined to be unhealthy and requires repair, GKE would drain the node. In other words, it'll
cause it's workloads to gracefully exit and then
recreate that node. Just as Kubernetes support
scaling workloads, GKE supports scaling
the cluster itself. GKE seamlessly integrates with Google Cloud Build and
Container Registry. This allows you to
automate deployment using private container
images that you've securely stored in
Container Registry. GKE also integrates with Google's Identity
and Access Management, which allows you to
control access through the use of accounts
enroll permissions. Stackdriver is
Google Cloud's system for monitoring and
management for services, containers, applications,
and infrastructure. GKE integrates with
Stackdriver monitoring to help you understand
your application's performance. GKE is integrated with Google Virtual Private
Clouds or VPCs, and makes use of
GCP's networking features. Finally, the GCP console provides insights into GKE clusters
and the resources. It allows you to view, inspect, and delete resources
in those clusters. You might be aware
that open-source Kubernetes contains a dashboard, but it takes a lot of work
to set it up securely. But the GCP Console
is a dashboard for your GKE clusters and workloads that you
don't have to manage, and it's more powerful than
the Kubernetes dashboard.