Let's start by introducing
the relationship between Cloud computing and GCP. Cloud computing has
five fundamental attributes. First, computing resources are on-demand and self-service. Cloud computing customers use an automated interface
and get the processing, power, storage, and
network they need, with no human intervention. Second, resources are accessible over a network from any location. Providers allocate resources to customers from a large pool, allowing them to benefit
from economies of scale. Customers don't have
to know or care about the exact physical location
of these resources. Resources themselves are elastic. Customers who need more
resources can get them rapidly, and when they need less,
they can scale back. Finally, customers
pay for only what they use or reserve as they go. If they stop using resources, they simply stop paying. That's how public Clouds such as Google Cloud
Platform work. GCP offers a variety of services, and architects and
developers like you can choose among those services
to build your solutions. Many of these Cloud services
are very familiar, such as virtual
machines on demand. Other services represent
an entirely new paradigm. One of those services is
Google Kubernetes engine, and that's the focus
of this course, and the ones that follow. By the way, we informally
call this service GKE, and you can too. The first thing that
many people ask of GCP is: please run some of
my code in the Cloud. GCP provides a range of services
for doing exactly that. Each aimed at satisfying a different set of
user preferences. Here's a quick summary
of those choices. In a later module, we'll compare each of them
in greater detail. The service that may be most
familiar to newcomers is Compute Engine which lets you run virtual machines on
demand in the Cloud. It's Google Cloud's infrastructure
as a service solution. It provides maximum
flexibility for people who prefer to manage those
server instances themselves. Now, GKE is different. It lets you run
containerized applications on a Cloud environment that Google Cloud manages for you under your
administrative control. So, what's a containerized application, and
what's Kubernetes? We'll learn a lot about each of those topics later
on in this course. For now, you can think of containerization as
a way to package code that's designed to
be highly portable and to use resources
very efficiently. You can think of
Kubernetes as a way to orchestrate code in
those containers. App Engine is GCP's
fully managed platform as a service framework. That means it's
a way to run code in the Cloud without having to
worry about infrastructure. You can focus on just
your code and let Google deal with
all the provisioning and resource management. You'll learn a lot more about App Engine and
the specialization, developing applications
in Google Cloud Platform. Cloud Functions is a completely serverless
execution environment, or functions as a service. It executes your code
in response to events, whether those occur
once a day or many, many, many, many
times per second. Google scales
resources as required, but you only pay for the service
while your code runs. The specialization,
developing application in the Google Cloud Platform, also discusses Cloud functions. In this specialization, GKE is going to be
our main focus. GKE is built on top
of Compute Engine, so we'll learn more about
that service too along the way. Most applications need
a database of some kind. If you've built
a cloud application, you can install and run
your own database forward on a virtual machine inside
of Compute Engine. You simply start up
the virtual machine, install your database
engine, set it up, just like you would
in a data center, or you can run
your own database server in Google Kubernetes too. However, with either approach, you have to manage and support
the database yourself. Alternatively, you can use Google's fully managed
database and storage services. What all of these have
in common is that they reduce the work it takes to
store all kinds of data. GCP offers relational and
non-relational databases as well as worldwide
object storage. You'll learn more
about these later on in the specialization. GCP also offers fully managed in big data and
machine learning services. Just as with storage
and database services, you could build and implement
these services yourself, and some GCP customers do. But the fact that they're
available as a service, means that you can
get started faster, and deal with a lot less
routine work along the way.