Billing, it's no fun. It's a fact of life. Let's learn more about it. Billing in GCP is set up
at the GCP project level. When you define a GCP project,
you'll link a billing account to it. This billing account is where you'll
configure all your billing information, including your payment option. You can link your billing
account to one or more projects. Projects that you don't link to any
billing account could only use free GCP services. Your billing account can be charged
automatically and invoiced every month, or at every threshold limit. You can separate project billings
by setting up billing sub-accounts. Some GCP customers who resell GCP
services use those sub-accounts for each of their own clients. And you're probably thinking how can
I make sure I don't accidentally run up a big GCP bill? GCP provides three tools to help. Budgets and alerts,
taking a look at the billing export, and also looking at your reports. You can define budgets at
the billing account level or even at the project level. To be notified when costs approach your
budget limit, you can create an alert. For example, with a budget limit of
$20,000 and an alert set at 90%, you'll receive a notification alert when your
expenses reach that threshold or $18,000. You can also set up a webhook to
be called in response to an alert. This webhook can control automation
based on billing alerts. For example, you can trigger the script to shut down
resources when a billing alert occurs. Or you can use this webhook to file
a trouble ticket with your team. The billing export allows you to
store detailed billing information in places where it's easy to retrieve for external analysis, such as a BigQuery
dataset or a Cloud Storage bucket. And Reports is a visual tool in
the console that allows you to monitor expenditure based on
your projects and your services. GCB also implements quotas which limit
unforeseen extra billing charges. Quotas are designed to prevent the over
consumption of resources because of an error or a malicious attack. Quotas apply at the level
of the GCP project. Now, there are two types of quotas. Rate quotas and Allocation quotas. Rate quotas reset after a specific time. For example, by default,
the GKE service implements a quota of 1,000 calls to its API for
each GCP project every 100 seconds. After that 100 seconds,
that limit is reset. Now, very important point. This doesn't limit the rate of calls
to your applications running in GKE. But rather, calls to the administrative configuration
of your GKE clusters themselves. It would be very unusual to make that many
calls in such a short period of time. And that quota might help catch and
stop that erroneous behavior. Allocation quotas govern the number of
resources you can have in your projects. This doesn't reset at any interval. Instead, you need to free up those
resources to stay within them. For example, by default, each GCP project
has a quota allowing it no more than five VPC networks, or
Virtual Private Clouds. These quotas are not the same for
all projects. Although projects start
with the same quotas, you can change some of them by requesting
an increase from Google Cloud Support. Some quotas may increase automatically
based on your usage of a product. And you can use the GCP console to
explicitly lower some of them for your own products. For example, if you wanted to put a more
stringent cap on your consumption. Finally, some quotas are fixed for
all GCP customers. Regardless, in addition to
the benefits to customers, GCP quotas also protect
the community of GCP users by reducing the overall risk
of unforeseen spikes in usage.