Now I'll tell you about Cloud Firestore. Don't confuse this service
with Cloud Filestore. You learned about Cloud Filestore
earlier in the specialization. On the other hand, Cloud Firestore is a no
SQL database service like Cloud Bigtable, but it has some important differences. Cloud Firestone automatically scales and replicates your data to maintain
high availability, and durability. You can chose whether your data
is replicated regionally or mighty originally. It offers strong consistency
guarantees for transactions, because every field is automatically
indexed, you can do fast queries. You can use Cloud Firestore to setup real
time sessions for shopping carts and booking events so you can provide the transactional
compliance these applications require. Cloud Firestore's data
model is a document store. To understand what the word document means
in this context, think of a snippet of JSON data containing fields, and
values, and those fields can be nested. These fields don't always
have to be the same for everything you store in the database. You can use Cloud Firestore
to store non homogeneous data without the need to limit
yourself to rigid schema. For instance, this is ideal if
you store diverse inventory data. Suppose your application
maintains profiles for each user. What if six months after
your application launches, you realize you need to start
storing a new field for users? Cloud Firestore's flexible schema
lets you evolve the structure of the user profiles in your
application as you add new features. Cloud Firestore offers what
are called ACID transactions. In essence, acid complaints means that the data in
your database stays internally consistent, because transactions either execute in
their entirety or do not execute at all. Because of Cloud Firestore's ACID
compliance, your application can maintain a consistent
state, even in large implementations. For example, suppose you have
a large online gaming application. Cloud Firestore is ideal for ensuring
that a consistent global game state is maintained for a massive number
of concurrent player sessions. You can use Cloud Firestore as
a persistent write-through cache, providing a simple key value
store that prevents data loss and provides persistent state
if your application fails. Finally, Cloud Firestore is also part of
Firebase, Google's mobile app platform with integrated unified client libraries
in various mobile programming languages. Mobile app developers can
use Firestore to store and synchronize app data at a global scale.