Now, I'll turn away from NoSQL database services
to SQL database services. For these services, you define a schema for your database and the database engine enforces it to help you maintain
your database. Cloud SQL is a fully managed
SQL database service for MySQL and PostgreSQL. You could run
these database services yourself in Compute Engine or Kubernetes engine but Cloud SQL is intended to save your work. GCP maintains patches and
updates the database software. It manages data replication and it performs backups for you. Cloud SQL also supports automatic Failovers
for high availability. Each of these
capabilities or something you would otherwise
have to do yourself. You can use Cloud SQL as
a direct replacement for existing MySQL or PostgreSQL
database servers, used by your applications. After you create
a Cloud SQL instance, you can import
a database dump from your existing server and simply reconfigure your application to point to the Cloud SQL instance. You can also use Cloud SQL
in any application with relational database
requirements such as web and mobile applications, e-commerce applications, and
mobile or online gaming. Your applications running in GKE access Cloud SQL using
the Cloud SQL proxy. That's a piece of
software you add to your application to
provide secure access to Cloud SQL database instances
without the need to configure SSL or
whitelist IP addresses. Cloud SQL proxy
automatically encrypts traffic in transit and handles
authentication with SQL. So even though
the pods that make up your application
might be dynamic, they can all reliably
access the database. In GKE, Cloud SQL
proxy is set up as a side car container in the same pod that contains
your application. Your application
communicates with the SQL proxy container using the local host
network address. The rest of the setup is similar to what you
have seen before. Enable the API, setup a Cloud IAM service account and use secrets to give
the credentials to the pods. With Cloud SQL proxy in place, your applications can
connect to Cloud SQL just like any other external
application would connect.