In a rolling update strategy,
the max unavailable and max search fields control
how the pods are updated. These fields of final range for the total number of pods within
the deployment regardless of replica sets. The max unavailable field lets you specify
the maximum number of pods that can be unavailable during the rollout process. This number can either be absolute or
a percentage. For example, you can say you want to have
two pods unavailable during the process. Specifying max unavailable at 25%
means you want to have at least 75% of the desired pods running at the same time. The default max unavailable is 25%. Max surge allows you to specify the
maximum number of pods that can be created concurrently in a new replica set. For example, you can specify that you want to add two
new pods at a time in a new replica set. And the deployment controller
will do that exactly. You can also set max
surge as a percentage. The deployment controller looks at
the total number of running pods in both ReplicaSets old and new. In this example, a deployment with
the desired number of Pods as four and a max surge of 25% will allow a maximum
of 5 Pods running at any given time. In other words, it'll allow 125% of
the desired number of pods, which is five. Again, the default maxSurge is 25%. Let's look at a deployment with
the desired number of pods set to ten, maxUnavailable set to 30% and
maxSurge set to 5. The old replica set has 10 pods. The deployment will begin by creating 5
new pods in a new replica set based on max surge. When those new pods are ready,
the total number of pods changes to 15. With max unavailable set to 30%,
the minimum number of pods running, regardless of old or new replica set is 10
minus 30%, which equates to seven pods. A total of eight pods can be
removed from the old replica set. This keeps the minimum
total at seven pods. Five in the new ReplicaSet and
two in the the old replica set. Next, five more pods will
launch in a new ReplicaSet. This creates a total of 10
parts in a new ReplicaSet and a total of 12 across all ReplicaSets. Finally, the remaining two pods
in the old set are deleted. This leaves 10 pods in a new replica set. There are a few additional options
,such as minready seconds and progress deadline seconds. Minready seconds defines the number
of seconds to wait before our pod is considered available without
crashing any of its containers. The default for min ready seconds is zero, meaning that as soon as the pod is ready,
it is made available. Another option is progress deadline
seconds, where you specify the wait period before a deployment reports
that it has failed to progress.