In this lesson, we'll look at
controlling pod placement. In Kubernetes,
pod placement can be controlled to labels
and taints on nodes, and node affinity rules and toleration in
deployment specification. When you specify a pod, you can optionally specify how much CPU and RAM
each container needs. When containers have
resource requests specified, the scheduler can make better decisions about which
nodes to place pods on. When containers have
their limits specified, contention for
resources on a node can be handled in
a specified manner. A pod sums each containers
resource, requests, and limits and sets up its own requested limits depending on the number of
containers it's running. A scheduler assigns
a pod to a node based on resource requests and limits set by the containers
within the pod. The scheduler ensures
that a pod's requests and limits are within
a node's capacity. It also spreads pods across
nodes automatically. These nodes could be set up across different compute sense. When nodes are started, the Kublet automatically assigns labels to them within
a zone information. Kubernetes will automatically
spread the pods in a replication controller or a service across nodes
in a single node, single zone cluster to reduce
the impact of failures. With multiple zone clusters, the spreading behavior
is it send it across zones to reduce the impact
of zone failures. But what if you want to
run certain types of obligations on a specific node? For example, if you want to run a web server on a
node with an SSD. For a pod to run on
a specific node, that node must match
all the labels present under the nodes
selector field in a pod. Node selector is
a pod specification field that specifies
one or more labels. The node labels may be
automatically assigned. For example, the labeled Kubernetes.io/hostname is
automatically created by GKE, or you may need to add
labels directly to identify nodes that
meet specific criteria. For example, this pod
will only run on a node that is
labeled with a GKE label that indicates that
the node is running on an AMD or an Intel
64-bit platform. If the nodes labels are changed, running pods are not affected. Node selector is only used
during pod scheduling